1. Installation
First, install the @changesets/cli package as a dev dependency:
npm install --save-dev @changesets/cli

2. Setting Up Changesets
Initialize Changesets in your project:

npx changeset init
This will create a .changeset folder in the root of your project. It contains configuration files and serves as the storage for changeset files.

3. Creating a Changeset
Whenever you're ready to make a release, create a changeset that describes the changes in your package:

npx changeset
This command will prompt you to describe the changes:

Select packages: If you're working in a monorepo, select the packages that have changes.
Bump version: Choose the version bump (major, minor, patch).
Write summary: Add a summary of the changes.
This will generate a new markdown file in the .changeset folder, e.g., my-changeset.md, containing the change information.

4. Generating the Changelog
After you have collected all the changesets, you can use Changesets to generate a CHANGELOG.md file and bump versions:

npx changeset version
This will:

Update your CHANGELOG.md with entries from the changesets.
Bump versions in your package.json files.
Mark changesets as applied.


5. Releasing Changes
When you're ready to release, you can publish the new version:

npx changeset publish
This will:

Publish your packages to npm (if you're using npm as a package manager).
Clean up applied changesets.


6. Customizing the Changelog
You can customize how your CHANGELOG.md is generated by modifying the .changeset/config.json file. For example, you can change the changelog function, add pre or post hooks, or customize the summary format.
Example Workflow:
Add a feature:

Run npx changeset and create a new changeset describing the feature.
The changeset is stored in .changeset as a markdown file.
Generate Changelog:

After creating all relevant changesets, run npx changeset version. This will update the CHANGELOG.md and bump package versions.
Release:

Run npx changeset publish to release the new version and publish the updated changelog.


Benefits of Using @changesets/cli:
Version Management: Automates version bumping based on the changes.
Multi-Package Support: Excellent for managing monorepos or projects with multiple packages.
Customization: Highly customizable for different workflows and formats.
This approach provides a structured and automated way to handle changelogs, particularly in more complex projects with multiple packages.    